PROBLEMS.md, before:

# Project Problems and Solutions Documentation

## 1. Module Format Issues

### Problem

```
Specified module format (CommonJs) is not matching the module format of the source code (EcmaScript Modules)
```

### Solution

- Updated `package.json` to use ES modules by setting `"type": "module"`
- Ensured consistent use of ES module syntax (`import`/`export`) throughout the project

## 2. Prisma Client Initialization

### Problem

```
Error: @prisma/client did not initialize yet. Please run "prisma generate" and try to import it again.
```

### Solution

1. Installed Prisma client:
   ```bash
   npm install @prisma/client
   ```
2. Generated Prisma client:
   ```bash
   npx prisma generate
   ```
3. Updated import path in `app/utils/connect.ts`:
   ```typescript
   import { PrismaClient } from '../../generated/prisma';
   ```

## 3. Form Submission Issues

### Problem

- Form submission was failing with "Something gone wrong" error
- No proper error handling or validation

### Solution

1. Added client-side validation:
   ```typescript
   if (!title || !description || !date) {
     toast.error('Please fill in all required fields');
     return;
   }
   ```
2. Added title length validation:
   ```typescript
   if (title.length < 3) {
     toast.error('Title must be at least 3 characters long');
     return;
   }
   ```
3. Improved error handling in API calls:
   ```typescript
   catch (error: any) {
     console.error('Error details:', error.response?.data || error.message);
     toast.error(error.response?.data?.message || 'Something went wrong!');
   }
   ```

## 4. API Endpoint Issues

### Problem

- Incorrect API endpoint path causing 404 errors
- Missing authentication handling

### Solution

1. Updated API endpoint from `api/task/tasks` to `/api/tasks`
2. Added authentication checks in API route:
   ```typescript
   const { userId } = await auth();
   if (!userId) {
     return NextResponse.json({ error: 'Unauthorized' }, { status: 401 });
   }
   ```

## 5. State Management Issues

### Problem

- Uncontrolled to controlled input warnings
- Undefined state values

### Solution

1. Initialized state with proper default values:
   ```typescript
   const [title, setTitle] = useState('');
   const [description, setDescription] = useState('');
   const [date, setDate] = useState('');
   const [completed, setCompleted] = useState(false);
   const [important, setImportant] = useState(false);
   ```

## 6. TypeScript Type Issues

### Problem

- Missing type definitions
- Implicit any types

### Solution

1. Added proper type definitions for event handlers:
   ```typescript
   const handleChange = (name: string) => (e: any) => {
     // ... handler implementation
   };
   ```
2. Added type for form submission:
   ```typescript
   const handleSubmit = async (e: any) => {
     // ... submit implementation
   };
   ```

## Best Practices Implemented

1. **Error Handling**

   - Added proper error messages
   - Implemented toast notifications for user feedback
   - Added console logging for debugging

2. **Form Validation**

   - Added client-side validation
   - Implemented server-side validation
   - Added proper error messages for validation failures

3. **State Management**

   - Proper initialization of state values
   - Controlled form inputs
   - Proper type definitions

4. **API Integration**
   - Proper error handling for API calls
   - Authentication checks
   - Proper response handling

## Future Improvements

1. Add proper TypeScript types for all event handlers
2. Implement proper form validation library (e.g., Zod, Yup)
3. Add loading states for API calls
4. Implement proper error boundary
5. Add unit tests for components and API routes
6. Implement proper logging system
7. Add proper documentation for API endpoints
8. Implement proper caching strategy
9. Add proper security measures
10. Implement proper monitoring system

## Notes

- Always check the console for detailed error messages
- Use proper error handling in async operations
- Implement proper validation before API calls
- Use proper type definitions
- Follow best practices for state management
- Implement proper security measures
- Use proper logging for debugging
- Follow proper documentation practices

Commit message:

Document MongoDB paused/userId issue and other recent changes

PROBLEMS.md, after:

# Project Problems and Solutions Documentation

## 1. Module Format Issues

### Problem

```
Specified module format (CommonJs) is not matching the module format of the source code (EcmaScript Modules)
```

### Solution

- Updated `package.json` to use ES modules by setting `"type": "module"`
- Ensured consistent use of ES module syntax (`import`/`export`) throughout the project

## 2. Prisma Client Initialization

### Problem

```
Error: @prisma/client did not initialize yet. Please run "prisma generate" and try to import it again.
```

### Solution

1. Installed Prisma client:
   ```bash
   npm install @prisma/client
   ```
2. Generated Prisma client:
   ```bash
   npx prisma generate
   ```
3. Updated import path in `app/utils/connect.ts`:
   ```typescript
   import { PrismaClient } from '../../generated/prisma';
   ```

## 3. Form Submission Issues

### Problem

- Form submission was failing with "Something gone wrong" error
- No proper error handling or validation

### Solution

1. Added client-side validation:
   ```typescript
   if (!title || !description || !date) {
     toast.error('Please fill in all required fields');
     return;
   }
   ```
2. Added title length validation:
   ```typescript
   if (title.length < 3) {
     toast.error('Title must be at least 3 characters long');
     return;
   }
   ```
3. Improved error handling in API calls:
   ```typescript
   catch (error: any) {
     console.error('Error details:', error.response?.data || error.message);
     toast.error(error.response?.data?.message || 'Something went wrong!');
   }
   ```

## 4. API Endpoint Issues

### Problem

- Incorrect API endpoint path causing 404 errors
- Missing authentication handling

### Solution

1. Updated API endpoint from `api/task/tasks` to `/api/tasks`
2. Added authentication checks in API route:
   ```typescript
   const { userId } = await auth();
   if (!userId) {
     return NextResponse.json({ error: 'Unauthorized' }, { status: 401 });
   }
   ```

## 5. State Management Issues

### Problem

- Uncontrolled to controlled input warnings
- Undefined state values

### Solution

1. Initialized state with proper default values:
   ```typescript
   const [title, setTitle] = useState('');
   const [description, setDescription] = useState('');
   const [date, setDate] = useState('');
   const [completed, setCompleted] = useState(false);
   const [important, setImportant] = useState(false);
   ```

## 6. TypeScript Type Issues

### Problem

- Missing type definitions
- Implicit any types

### Solution

1. Added proper type definitions for event handlers:
   ```typescript
   const handleChange = (name: string) => (e: any) => {
     // ... handler implementation
   };
   ```
2. Added type for form submission:
   ```typescript
   const handleSubmit = async (e: any) => {
     // ... submit implementation
   };
   ```

## 7. MongoDB Paused / userId Not Recognized

### Problem

- Tasks were not displaying in the app.
- The backend could not recognize or retrieve the `userId`.
- The root cause was that the MongoDB database was in a "paused" state (common with free-tier cloud MongoDB services like Atlas), so connections and queries failed.

### Solution

1. **Resume MongoDB Cluster:**
   - Logged into the MongoDB Atlas dashboard.
   - Located the paused cluster and clicked "Resume" to restart the database.
2. **Verify Database Connection:**
   - Ensured the backend could connect to MongoDB (no connection errors in logs).
   - Confirmed that the `userId` could be retrieved and used in queries.
3. **Check Application:**
   - Reloaded the app and verified that tasks were now displaying correctly for the authenticated user.

### Notes

- Free-tier MongoDB clusters may pause after periods of inactivity. Always check the cluster status if you encounter unexplained database or authentication issues.
- Consider upgrading or using a local MongoDB instance for development to avoid interruptions.

## Best Practices Implemented

1. **Error Handling**

   - Added proper error messages
   - Implemented toast notifications for user feedback
   - Added console logging for debugging

2. **Form Validation**

   - Added client-side validation
   - Implemented server-side validation
   - Added proper error messages for validation failures

3. **State Management**

   - Proper initialization of state values
   - Controlled form inputs
   - Proper type definitions

4. **API Integration**
   - Proper error handling for API calls
   - Authentication checks
   - Proper response handling

## Future Improvements

1. Add proper TypeScript types for all event handlers
2. Implement proper form validation library (e.g., Zod, Yup)
3. Add loading states for API calls
4. Implement proper error boundary
5. Add unit tests for components and API routes
6. Implement proper logging system
7. Add proper documentation for API endpoints
8. Implement proper caching strategy
9. Add proper security measures
10. Implement proper monitoring system

## Notes

- Always check the console for detailed error messages
- Use proper error handling in async operations
- Implement proper validation before API calls
- Use proper type definitions
- Follow best practices for state management
- Implement proper security measures
- Use proper logging for debugging
- Follow proper documentation practices
